#How to make Bluetooth work with the Telemetrez

= Introduction =

This is how to setup a Bluetooth connection between the 9x and an Android phone using a Telemetrez board.


= Details =

First here is the parts you will need to complete this:
 * A Bluetooth module.  I like the one from Sparkfun.com (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10253) 
 * next you will need a 3.3V regulator.  The Sparkfun module only works on 3.3V so we need to step the 5V down a bit
 * 3 resistors,  a 10k ohm, a 1k ohm, and a 20k ohm
 * some wire to make connections

===Bluetooth module setup===
Start by setting up the Bluetooth module.  I was able to attach the 3.3V regulator directly to my module.  Looking at the back of the module, or the side where you can make solder connections.  And with the antenna to the top.  The right side row of connectors, the bottom 2 are for power.  The lowest one, farthest from the antenna, is ground.  And the one immediately above it is 3.3V input.  Next I attached the 20k ohm resistor from the ground pin across to the lowest pin on the opposite side.  This is the data input to the module.  Also to the data input pin attach the 6.8k resistor.  You should now have 3 connections to your Bluetooth module.  The data input connection, which is the unconnected end of the 10k resistor.  Ground and 5V in, which goes to the unconnected pin of the 3.3V regulator.
===Telemetrez board setup===
Take the 1k resistor and connect it between pin 1 and pin17 of the attiny1634.  If you are looking at the Telemetrez so the expansion IO is at the top, then pin 1 of the '1634 is the top left pin.  And pin 17 is on the opposite side 3rd down from the top.
===Connecting it all together===
You need to connect the 5V regulator to a 5V source on the Telemetrez.  All the way to the right of the expansion IO is a hole marked +5V.  Connect the 5V wire to there.  One the opposite side of the expansion IO is a hole marked +0V.  This is the ground connection point.  Finally connect the data input line for the module to hole F.  And that will do it for connections.  You should at this point double check your connections.  Make sure you regulator is connected the right way.  5V will kill the Bluetooth module.
===Can't connect just yet===
The default settings in the Bluetooth module have it set for 115200 baud.  We need to change that before it will work.  This is easy to do.  I downloaded the 'SENA BTerm' app to my phone.  This is just a serial terminal for Bluetooth on your phone.  By now you should be able to turn on the 9x and have the Bluetooth module come up and work.  So go ahead and turn on the 9x.  Next pull up the Bluetooth settings on your phone.  Scan for devices, and connect to the one named RN-42(something).  It will after a few seconds ask for a pairing code.  The Sparkfun modules use '1234'.  Once that is done turn off the 9x and install the SENA BTerm app.  Open the SENA BTerm once it is installed.  Press the menu button, and tap 'Bluetooth management'.  Next turn on the 9x, you will have 1 minute to complete the next couple of steps.  Now select 'connect to', press the 'select' button and start a scan.  Again select the RN-42 device, it will go back to the previous menu.  Press connect there, you should get a message about connecting and then the screen will go black.  Just tap anywhere to bring up the keyboard.  You won't see the characters you type.  Now type 3 dollar signs '$$$'.  'CMD' should appear on your display, if it doesn't you might have taken too long.  If cmd did appear on your display you are now in the command mode of the module.  Next type (without quotes) 'SU,96' and press enter.  'AOK' should appear on the display.  This was the command to change the baud rate to 9600.  Finally type 3 dashes followed by enter '---'.  This will exit command mode.  Now you can cycle the 9x power, and pull up your favorite Frsky app on your phone and get telemetry data over there.  I have found 2 that I like so far.  Frsky dashboard, and FRS logger.  I haven't used either one much, but both were working when I wrote this.